What is the Neural Network? {#page-title .page__title .title}
===========================

[[Published:]{.element-invisible} Oct. 13, 2017]{.author-meta-date
.author-meta-item} [o]{.author-meta-separator} [By [Izabel
Aguiar]{.byline-author-name}]{.author-meta-name .author-meta-item}

The Neural Network is a weekly newsletter spotlighting some of the many
members of the Computer Science community. Each week we will get to
learn about a different professor, staff member, or student. We'll have
the opportunity to get their advice about life, school, and the
neighborhood. We'll learn about their hobbies, favorite research
questions, quirks, and families.

Most importantly, we'll have the opportunity to cultivate our community
by recognizing and celebrating the humans that compose it. By learning
about and nourishing our community we will be able to collaborate on
innovative research, better prepared to support and encourage one
another, and inspired to cultivate a sense of home. When life is most
difficult, it\'s invaluable to know you have a family within your
department. Something as seemingly small as learning about the hobbies,
fears, and hopes of those with whom we work and from whom we learn can
make a world of difference.

I encourage you to read the following issues with curiosity. If you
learn something about someone that sparks an interest, find them and
start a conversation.

*Do you have a suggestion for someone within our department you'd like
to be spotlighted? Would you like to contribute an article about someone
you respect? Is there someone you wish you knew more about? Please email
me at <izabel.p.aguiar@gmail.com>. I'm open to and excited about all
suggestions and recommendations!*

