---
title: Alexandra Kolla
author: Izabel Aguiar
date: 2018-03-01
---

![Alexandra Kolla](https://www.colorado.edu/cs/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/article-image/alexandrakolla.jpg?itok=oa8mtCYz)

Alexandra Kolla is a brand new associate professor in the Department of
Computer Science at CU Boulder, who joined our community at the
beginning of the semester. She is a professor in our growing theory
group and excited to help new students pursue paths in theoretical
computer science. Introduce yourself and welcome her to the department
next time you see her around, and use one of her icebreaker suggestions
to start a conversation.

What is your path in getting to CU Boulder?
-------------------------------------------

Alexandra was born in Greece and wanted to be an actress when she grew
up, then changed her mind to be an astrophysicist, and eventually
converged on mathematician. She completed her BS in Athens and her PhD
in Computer Science at Berkeley. She then held a research position at
the Institute for Advanced Study, at Microsoft Research, and at the
Simons Institute. Of her time at the Institute for Advanced Study,
Alexandra says "we would all live in the forest and walk around and
prove theorems." The we in her statement included John Nash, with whom
she would often eat lunch. Prior to joining us in Boulder, Alexandra was
an assistant professor at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign.

How would you explain your research to a 10-year-old?
-------------------------------------------------------

"Can I assume the 10-year-old knows what a computer is?" Alexandra
studies the mathematics problems that lie behind the algorithms on which
computers run. "As an example that is maybe inappropriate for a ten year
old," complexity theory examines how hard is it to solve a problem, how
fast of an algorithm we can design to solve it. Within complexity theory
are conjectures about what can and cannot be done by computers. One
major open problem in Alexandra's field is proving those conjectures
which, if true, imply that the type of Artificial Intelligence we see in
movies is impossible. 

What's something you're proud of?
----------------------------------

One of the hardest thing's Alexandra has ever done was, following her
PhD and Â a successful research career, quitting her job to follow her
dreams. She sold all of her belongings to travel the world and become a
full-time surf bum. She was broke, riding buses around the world, and
traveling alone, without research or anything or anyone else. It was the
hardest and best time of her life.

If you could make sure everybody in the world knew one part of your work, what would it be?
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The part of theoretical computer science that Alexandra is most excited
about and wants to share with other people is spectral graph theory.
"It's a way to, instead of looking at a graph and working with it,
listen to the graph like an instrument: a subtle linear algebra way to
understand the graph with mathematics."

What are your hobbies?
-----------------------

Alexandra is extremely athletic and loves surfing, climbing, and does
competitive CrossFit and weightlifting. She even threatens bad students
in her classes that she'll back squat them. Alexandra loves surfing for
many reasons. "It pushes your limit, pushes what\'s possible and not,
and it's up to you to overcome the fear. You have to switch something in
your mind to do it." Surfing doesn\'t discriminate either. No matter who
you are the wave will crash you. Alexandra loves this more equal aspect
of life.

What part of what you do makes you most excited?
-------------------------------------------------

Alexandra really enjoys advising PhD students and helping them prove
things on their own. She loves searching for and finding problems that
are accessible and good problems to help her students succeed. "It\'s
more important that my students are successful at this point than it is
for myself." As far as Alexandra's own work goes, she describes her
relationship with it as similar to having kids. "When you think of a
problem for ten years it's yours. You don\'t have the option to leave
it. You can send it way to camp but it's a part of yourself. You become
very emotionally connected."

What advice can you share with us?
----------------------------------

People don't share much and tend to be selfish, even when it comes to
research and work. "Our research society advances easier when we share.
It's better to put skills together for the greater good than to be
selfish."

Icebreaker Suggestions:
-------------------------

A question that will really get Alexandra talking is something along the
lines of, "What's the swell doing today? How are the waves?" Since we
live in a landlocked state, instead ask her about mathematics,
weightlifting, gymnastics, or climbing.

